about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

<h1>About</h1>
I love working on teams that are focused on the end user. Whether that's building software or writing sales copy, I'm driven to find what matters most to customers and have a bias for features and marketing strategies that deliver results. 

I learn quickly. I've picked up effective online marketing techniques from <a href="https://copyhackers.com/" target="_blank">Copyhackers</a>, <a href="https://moz.com/blog" target="_blank">Moz</a>, &amp; <a href="https://blog.kissmetrics.com/" target="_blank">Kissmetrics</a>. I've had practical coding experience on websites and applications used by millions of people. 

My online marketing and code has successfully <a href="http://andrewparadi.com/projects/videostream">grown user bases</a>, <a href="http://andrewparadi.com/projects/teknically-webplio/">won thousands</a> in competition prize and grant money (<a href="http://andrewparadi.com/blog/the-389-day-laurier-bba/">1</a>, <a href="http://andrewparadi.com/blog/the-dream-fades/">2</a>), and even <a href="http://andrewparadi.com/projects/sam-campaign">elected a President</a>.


<h2>Why email Andrew?</h2>
I'm looking for a <strong>summer 2016 internship</strong> at an organization where I can tackle some ambitious projects. [Email me](mailto:me@andrewparadi.com) if you want an intern on your team that will deliver.

Reach out if you're a <strong>local startup founder</strong> looking for a fresh perspective on why your landing page isn't bringing you customers that stick. I do consulting for writing effective sales copy, building landing pages that convert, and improving software user retention. I enjoy mentoring early stage startup founders how to find their first customers, scope out the easiest software MVP that can test your assumptions, and navigate the opportunities of the Kitchener-Waterloo tech community.

Commit message:

blog pretty permalink, updated menu
full blog audit, social include added to post

social fix

project blog menu, css, project footer, bio in config

toggle menu css tweak, post footer

toggle css, footer, tags

tags liquid markup fix

tag edits, tag on blog, css

revert footer, about

footer fixes

reset project template

tag cleanup, about

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

##Hi, I'm Andrew!
Welcome to the site! My past [projects](/) and [blog](/blog/) posts are the best way to understand who I am, what I've worked on, and how I approach a problem. For a more summarized look at my work experience, please check out my [resume](/assets/files/AndrewParadiResume.pdf), which includes a reference letter from my most recent position as a [Growth Intern at Videostream](/project/videostream/). 

I'm looking for an internship for Summer 2016 so if you think I'd be a good fit for your team, please email me at [me@andrewparadi.com](mailto:me@andrewparadi.com)!

##Work Experience
I love working on teams that are focused on the end user. Whether that's building software or writing sales copy, I'm driven to find what matters most to customers and have a bias for features and marketing strategies that deliver results. 

I learn quickly. I've written production code for websites and applications used by [millions of people](/project/videostream/). I've picked up effective online marketing techniques from [Copyhackers](https://copyhackers.com/), [Moz](https://moz.com/blog), &amp; [Kissmetrics](https://blog.kissmetrics.com/) that have [grown user bases and revenue](/project/videostream/).

My online marketing and code has successfully [won thousands](/project/teknically-webplio/) in competition prize and grant money ([1](http://andrewparadi.com/blog/the-389-day-laurier-bba/), [2](http://andrewparadi.com/blog/the-dream-fades/), and even [elected a President](project/sam-campaign).


##Why email Andrew?
I'm looking for a **summer 2016 technical internship** at an organization where I can tackle some ambitious projects. [Email me](mailto:me@andrewparadi.com) if you want an intern on your team that will deliver.

###Other KW Founders
Reach out if you're a <strong>local startup founder</strong> looking for a fresh perspective on why your landing page isn't bringing you customers that stick. I do consulting for writing effective sales copy, building landing pages that convert, and improving software user retention. I enjoy mentoring early stage startup founders how to find their first customers, scope out the easiest software MVP that can test your assumptions, and navigate the opportunities of the Kitchener-Waterloo tech community.
