---
title:  "Blitzen"
date:   2016-08-12 18:00:00
startdate:  2015-04-25 9:05:00
permalink: /project/blitzen/
categories: 
- project
- work
layout: "project"
tags:
- javascript
- HTML/Sass
- analytics
- sales-copy
image: /assets/article_images/2016-08-12-blitzen/blitzen-hero-rasta-optimizelyc.png
excerpt: In 4 months, Andrew boosted signups 64% with interactive website elements and steller split test beating sales copy.
seo-title: "Blitzen - Downloads Up 32% in Weeks | Andrew Paradi"
---

**As Summer '16 Jr. Developer, I took charge of signup and onboarding development and ended up boosting signups by 64%.**

At [Blitzen](https://blitzen.com/), I worked on all aspects of the signup and onboarding process from the main website to onboarding emails and initial in-app experience.

Starting with the main website, I worked on a better converting visitor experience with personality infused sales copy, featured press logos, and a simplified design. Using Optimizely, we tested the new variation against the old and after a few weeks of data, we knew with statistical certainty that my changes were having a signficant positive impact.

> There were a lot more signup notifications on Slack, but that wasn't as concrete as the 64% improvement waiting for us on Optimizely. 

I also sat in on marketing and sales meetings to listen to customer signup concerns as I worked on develompent plans for the onboarding experience. We collaborated on more effective onboarding emails within the Blitzen Django app and Mailchimp.

Using Javascript, JQuery, and HTML/SASS, I built interactive elements on the pricing page to allow for a more dynamic pricing based on # of contacts instead of arbitrary plans. With a slider and a simple Basic or Pro plan, prospective Blitzen users can upgrade to a plan perfect for them.

**If this is the type of impact you want your Winter 2017 dev intern to make, let's chat. Email [me at andrewparadi.com](mailto:me@andrewparadi.com) or check out [my resume](/assets/files/AndrewParadiResume.pdf).**

