---
title:  "Hired: 6 Questions to Cut Your Resume BS"
date:   2016-05-14 12:00:00
tags:
- summer2016
- hired
- tinder
- resume
- startups
- tech
categories: blog
image: /assets/article_images/2016-05-14-hired-part-1/DSC_0430c.jpg
excerpt: How to stop writing forgettable job descriptions that annoy recruiters and don't get interviews.
seo-title: "Hired: 6 Questions to Cut Your Resume BS"
---

**It's hiring season again, which means it's time to update your resume.**

*Writing an effective resume is a challenge.* It isn't taught well in school and online examples seem too generic to stand out for competitive jobs.

In the last two years I've looked at hundreds of resumes online and from successful friends, asked for critical resume feedback from recruiters and people I trust, and gone through 21 versions of my resume. And it's still not perfect.

Over the next couple weeks, I'm going to share the biggest mistakes I've made and see too often in resumes, interviewing, and negotiating job terms.

And, I'll give you the strategies I use so I **never** make those mistakes again.

Welcome to *andrewnotes*::**Hired**.

Today we start with the most important, yet poorly done aspects of a resume: **job and side project descriptions**. 

Too often, they become forgettable lists of tasks you did, with common technologies verbosely explained unnecessarily.

Hiring managers need to be able to quickly grasp the impact you had. *Most descriptions annoy them so much they never finish reading the resume.*

**Your resume needs to spark enough curiosity that managers can't help but book an interview to learn more.**

In this post, I'll give you the technique that cuts through the BS and will focus your descriptions on impact.

*Note: though most of the examples are from a software developer perspective, the mistakes and technique are useful for any resume. Pull your resume up and see how these techniques will help you.*


Don't mistake your resume for the interview
---

*"Everyone asks for your resume, so if I write a great one won't that get me the job?"*

I initially thought so. 

My early resumes were jam packed with everything that could prove I was the right candidate for the job.

As I got feedback from those I respect, I realized I was trying to make a resume do far more than it could.

A resume isn't a *history of past jobs*.

A resume isn't a *portfolio of accomplishments*.

So what is the purpose of a resume?

> A resume's only purpose is to spark enough curiosity that a manager can't help but book an interview.

Impact statements spark curiosity, Descriptions put recruiters to sleep
---

After realizing that my resume didn't need to answer every possible question (if they're that curious, they can book an interview), **I cut down text by almost 60%.**

**More importantly, I changed my descriptions to focus solely on impact.**

Here are two examples of text that could describe my internship last summer at [Videostream](http://andrewparadi.com/blog/videostream-how-growth-starts-with-great-customer-support/).

Case A
-----

**Growth Intern at Videostream**

- Developed new website in HTML/CSS with Optimizely integration in adherance to Google Material Design language.
- Built new in-app premium page within Videostream Chrome App with Google Material Design to increase paid conversions.
- Solely responsible for all customer support emails in Freshdesk answering up to 100 per day all summer. Supported troubleshooting issues, feature requests, and premium upgrade questions.

Case B
-----

**Growth Intern at Videostream**

- Developed new site that boosted app downloads by 32%, weekly active users 12% 
- Built new Premium flow with Javascript, Material Design, & Stripe API
- Resolved 2,148 email tickets as support lead for Videostream's 1.2 million users

**Case B is on my resume. But why?**

> Case B is concise and focused on quantified impact.

Numbers are proof of my positive contribution to the team. They tell a story of *what I accomplished*, which is far more interesting than *what tasks I did*. 

Hiring managers also can't resist the allure that their team could achieve similar results.

**So, how do you turn forgettable job descriptions (Case A) into memorable, quantified impact statements (Case B)?**

For each statement in your descriptions, ask yourself the following:

**1. Is this statement as concise as possible?** 

  - Are you explaining processes or technologies unnecessarily? 
  - Long winded, unnecessary, verbose descriptions spark no additional interest in you as a candidate and reduce the chances any hiring manager will finish reading your resume.

**2. Is there a percentage change you could use to quantify your impact?** 

  - Percentage changes best describe the impact of
    - growth (improved conversions, growth in user base, onboarding completion...) 
    - reduction of undesirable events (support wait time, employee/customer turnover, avg QA batch test time...)
  - Percentages have baseline context built in. This can better reflect the importance of a change within a small data set
    - Increasing downloads by 25/week would be impressive with a baseline of 50/week (50% improvement) but insignificant if the baseline was 5,000/week (0.5% improvement)
  - *Caution*: Don't try to use percentages to hide insignificant changes behind a large percentage, hiring managers can see through this.
    - *"Look ma, I have 50% growth week over week!"* ** "Jimmy, you only had 1 person before, now you have 2... " **
  - Examples
    - New website boosted app downloads by 32%
    - Improved design increased weekly active users by 12% 
    - Reduced support ticket response time by 43%

**3. Is there a static number that could be used?** 

  - Static numbers can be useful to 
    - provide context (size of user base, sales team size...) 
    - make your impact undeniable – not vague like a percentage can be (lines of code, number of new closed deals, number of customers helped) 
    - talk about money given how accustomed people are to understanding importance in dollars ($85,000 in new sales resonates more than 12 closed deals)
  - Smaller static numbers require context to seem impressive. 
    - Closing 3 new deals is only impressive within the context of few deals/time frame or in total.
    - Completing 1 code audit in 1 work term is only impressive if it's specified that this was a full audit on a million line code base.
  - *Caution*: raw numbers can be confidential data (user acquisition, web visitors, revenue growth...) so check with your employer before using them. 
  - Examples
    - Grew Webplio beta to 264 teams
    - Resolved 2,148 support tickets for user base of 1.2 million
    - Wrote 68 new canned responses to improve support team efficiency

**4. Do you have a choice between a static number and a percentage change?** 

  - Refer to both sections above, especially the caution ones.
  - Generally, choose the one that sounds, first, most believable, and second, most impressive.
  - *Remember*: use numbers are to quantify your impact and spark curiosity. Don't turn your resume into click bait.

**5. If no number can be shared, ask yourself again, is this statement necessary?** 

  - Are you falling back into regurgitating a verbose job description?
  - Is this fundamental to understanding, through your resume, your overall experience as a job candidate?

**6. Are these the technologies or skills I should strategically highlight given your next desired job?**

  - If there are no numbers but the statement is necessary, highlight technologies you used that are most relevant to your next job. 
  - More about this coming next week...


Given most of you already have a resume, don't be surprised if these questions end up eliminating a lot of what you already have written.

> Getting rid of forgettable descriptions frees up space for you to write focused impact statements

If you're stuck trying to determine your impact, try the following prompts:

- What metrics were part of *my job*? (# lines of code, tests passed, # commits, sales/month...)
- What metrics would *my boss* have been worrying about? (bug fix time per sprint, errors/user, downtime...)
- What metrics on *another team* might I have impacted? (conversion rates, download rates, user growth, user acquisition rates, on-boarding completion, daily/weekly/monthly active users...)
- What metrics related to *business performance* could my work have impacted? (revenue growth, lifetime value per user, shopping cart abandonment rate, transaction completion rate...)
- How did I impact *customers*? (# tickets resolved, time/resolved ticket, # customer demos...)

Not every job will have numbers that you can use, so focus on writing most concisely what you did.

Consider the hiring manager for your next job who will read your resume and what technologies & skills they want to see.

Coming up next in andrewnotes::Hired
---
Most internal hiring software now score your resumes based on keyword analysis *before any person ever reads it*.

Strategically choosing what technologies or skills to feature is vital.

> Alert: Your resume needs SEO as much as a website

**Next week, I'll show you how to target keywords that will help get your resume in front of hiring managers.**


*Thanks for Reading*

- If you liked this post, please swipe right.
- Add your email below to get the next *andrewnotes*::**Hired** post on keyword optimizing your resume.
- Swipe left to leave any feedback or topics you want covered.


<script src="https://blitzen.com/scripts/blitzenForm.js" type="text/javascript"></script> <iframe src="https://andrew.blitzen.com/form/andrewnotes-footer-1?page=20160514-hiring-part-1" id="017ce06a18c93534f49cdb840176f9" onload="resizeCrossDomainIframe('017ce06a18c93534f49cdb840176f9', 'https://andrew.blitzen.com');" width="100%" style="border: none;" resize="true"></iframe>


**Top Posts**

- [How An Email Support Agent Improved Downloads by 32%](http://andrewparadi.com/blog/videostream-how-growth-starts-with-great-customer-support/)
- [3 Ways Hack the North Improved our Startup](http://andrewparadi.com/blog/3-ways-hack-the-north-improved-our-startup/)
- [Teknically: Google Analytics for Non-Techies](http://andrewparadi.com/project/teknically-webplio/)
