---
title:  "Books: Hackers, Portfolios, & Camp David"
date:   2016-08-07 6:00:00
permalink: /blog/books-part-3
redirect_from: /blog/books-part-3/
tags:
- Books
categories:
- Blog
image: /assets/article_images/2016-08-07-books-part-3/DSC_0409c.jpg
image2: /assets/article_images/2016-08-07-books-part-3/DSC_0409c-1000c.jpg
excerpt: In 6 months, I've read books on tense diplomatic negotiations, 1960s American segregation, and the perfect investing portfolio.
seo_title: "Books: Hackers, Portfolios, & Camp David | Andrew Paradi"
---
You're reading *andrewnotes*::**Books**. Looking for more in this series?

- [Books: Goliath, Rosie, Malcolm X, & Blackberry](/blog/books-part-1)
- [Books: Tesla, Aging, & Emotional Intelligence](/blog/books-part-2)
- [Good to Great by Jim Collins](/blog/good-to-great)

Priorities
---

Setting aside time to read is a deliberate priority I make to invest time in myself. Even with the busy schedule of a startup, school, or work I read before I go to sleep, during lunch, and when I'm on the bus.

My first computer science term at University of Waterloo slowed my pace down a bit, but I still got through some great books during the first half of 2016. Here they are!


Deep Work
---
The improtance of focus especially for technology workers.



Black Rednecks & White Liberals
---

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Rednecks_and_White_Liberals


- Black culture (bragadocisousness, lack of interest in education, sexual promiscuity) have roots not in slavery but in Southern US culture that stems from the Highland regions of Scotland and Ireland.
- The Middle Man Minority concept. Why have Jews, Koreans, Chinese in the rest of Asia, Lebanese in North Africa succeeded so much more than the surrounding native populations? They've taken on middle man roles in industry providing liquidity and credit, also running stores and working in other industries like in producing garments that allowed them to outwork native populations both in # of hours for prorietor and by working their families too. They also deliberately lived in squalor and were notoriously frugal to be able to self-fund their businesses, and as they became profitable, their lifestyles allowed them to acquire and grow wealth. Trade within these communities was easier too as values were shared, trust extended, and lower transaction costs could be offered.
- The slave trade in the US was not unique in scope or ethnic focus within the context of world history. Over 1 million Europeans were enslaved in Islamic countries at one point. Every ethnic group has been enslaved at some point in human history. The causes of Black redneck culture is not slavery since former slaves from the West Indies Caribbean have succeeded far more when they have come to the US as a group, then freed US slaves. Thus the cultural differences between West Indies and redneck culture are a primary difference since they both experienced equally horrific conditions. The liberation of slaves world wide also only came about because of Western nations and European initiative. Without Britain spending billions of current dollars to free British slaves and patrol the Mediteranean coast to stop the continuing slave trade among North African and Islamic Middle Eastern countries, slavery would have continued and grown. Blacks enslaving blacks, Arabs enslaving Arabs... was the rule, and all fought visciously when the European ideals of slave liberation were enforced in the 1800s. Accusations of inadequate fighting against slavery by America's founding fathers and Presidents is equally misguided past the surface.
- Is Germany uniquely anti-semitic or how did they become Nazis? Breaking down their history as unique identity of work ethic and innovation that has been maintained even within German enclaves around the world, Sowell reveals the discomforting truth that the Germans as a people group were less disposed than most to following for a tyrannical demagogue given their lack of interest in politics. In the 1928 election prior to their economic hardship, Hitler's politics had no major following and most of the anti-Semitic critiques were ignored or pushed aside since most Germans still interacted with Jews day to day. Thus if it can happen to Germany, any people group remains deeply vulnerable to a period of hardship and the rising up of a despot.
- The reintegration of schools did not universally benefit students. Dunbar Highschool went from pumping out an entire generation of black intellectuals to dismal scores. High performing missionary ran black schools that had enforced North Eastern white cultures of academic focus, correct speaking of language, and personal responsibility had allowed a generation of Blacks to escape the disadventageous redneck culture that despised further education.
- Black colleges were college in name only as the standards of scholarship were not maintained ds they were for white schools at the same time. Low standards propagated an entire generation and class of black intellectuals who were not intellectual.
- Continued focus on historic injustices serve no advantage for people seeking better economic progress. It perpetuates victim mentalities, reduces any pressure of personal responsibility, and propogates historical divisions among ethnic groups.

Stasiland
---

The horror of East Germany has fascinated me for the final few weeks of my CS492: Social Implications of Computing course. Stasiland proviedes a narrative style account of a writer working her way through East Germany after the wall fell to hear stories of the Stasi as told by their victims or former agents and administrators. The thoroughness to which the Stasi destroyed some lives was contrasted against the diversity of agents and collaborators within the Stasi. Some agents when they tried to resign were blackmailed themselves into staying on threat of the state taking away their children and forcing a divorse from spouse. Others to the date of writing were convinced by the validity of their actions in protecting against the evil capitalists being sent from the West to pillage the East's resources. The healing and reunification of Germany has not been easy and the book released in 2003 provides insight into how victims, collaborators, and perpetrators have processed their experiences under the 40 year, communist, totalitarian regime of the German Democratic Republic.

A Life CS Lewis
---

As an avid reader of Lewis, A Life is a recently written biography of his life. Unlike many biographies written in the intervening years since his death on November 23, 1963?, the writer never met Lewis and was not a close friend or colleague. Combined with newer releases of his old letters and correspondences have allowed {the writer} to provide a unique perspective of the writer: his childhood, career, relationships, and writings.

Lewis' life was not an easy one. His mother died while he was a young boy. Shipped off to bording school, he wilted away from family and home. As a World War I veteran studying at Oxford he began a relationship with one of his fallen camrades mother who stood in as a figure for mother and companion that he never had. His brother struggled with alcoholism also as a World War I and II veteran. After Mrs. Moore passed away, Lewis got a surprising new chance at love late in life with Joy Davidson though soon after they married when he was 63?, she was diagnosed with bone cancer and died three years later. Lewis got prostate cancer and died in his old Oxford home.

Now knowing better his life and surroundings as he grew up, it is much easier to understand the real life inspirations for different settings and characters and topics of his books. The Professor and his country estate amidst the rolling British hills in The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe might have been fashioned after Lewis himself and his childhood surroundings in Ireland. The Problem of Pain, originally released under a pen name, details the sorrow Lewis felt after his loving wife and witty fellow literary sparring partner Joy Davidson died from bone cancer only a few years into their marriage. Visions of rolling grassy fields in Heaven in The Great Divorce, may well have also eluded to the Ireland of his childhood.

A better understanding of Lewis, the man, provides another valuable dimension to his timeless prose.


After I Believe NT Wright
---



The Last Lion
---


Up Next
---

I recently finished the 1954 classic *How to Lie with Statistics* by Darrell Huff and I'm now working through Gary Vaynerchuk's *Jab, Jab, Jab, Right Hook: How to Tell Your Story in a Noisy Social World*. I'll be writing about both in a couple months for my next book list!

Reading let's my mind slow down, learn about new topics, become more understanding of peoples and situations, and is one of the least painful ways to grow personally.

> I grow a lot in my failures too, reading is just a lot less painful.

Investing in your own personal growth will always have a positive ROI. Even if none of the books above interest you, you can find one that does. Fiction, non-fiction, business, science, fantasy, history... **start reading again today!**

**Read These Posts Next**

- [Hired: 6ix Questions to Focus your Resume on Impact](/blog/hired-part-1)
- [Canadian Fintech Startups Have Only 3 Options](/blog/canadian-fintech-startups-have-only-3-options)
- [3 Ways Hack the North Improved our Startup](/blog/3-ways-hack-the-north-improved-our-startup)
